## 8. "this" and Arrow Functions

With **regular functions**, the value of `this` is set based on *how the function is called*. With **arrow functions**, the value of `this` is based on the *function's surrounding context*. In other words, the value of `this` *inside* an arrow function is the same as the value of `this` *outside* the function.

Let's check out an example with `this` in regular functions and then look at how arrow functions will work.
```javascript
// constructor
function IceCream() {
  this.scoops = 0;
}

// adds scoop to ice cream
IceCream.prototype.addScoop = function() {
  setTimeout(function() {
    this.scoops++;
    console.log('scoop added!');
  }, 500);
};

const dessert = new IceCream();
dessert.addScoop();
```
**Prints**: `scoop added!`

After running the code above, you'd *think* that `dessert.scoops` would be `1` after half a millisecond. But, unfortunately, it's not:
```javascript
console.log(dessert.scoops);
```
**Prints**: `0`

Can you tell why?

The function passed to `setTimeout()` is called without `new`, without `call()`, without `apply()`, and without a context object. That means the value of `this` inside the function is the global object and **NOT** the `dessert` object. So what actually happened was that a new `scoops` variable was created (with a default value of `undefined`) and was then incremented (`undefined + 1` results in `NaN`):
```javascript
console.log(scoops);
```
**Prints**: `NaN`

One way around this is to use closure:
```javascript
// constructor
function IceCream() {
  this.scoops = 0;
}

// adds scoop to ice cream
IceCream.prototype.addScoop = function() {
  const cone = this; // sets `this` to the `cone` variable
  setTimeout(function() {
    cone.scoops++; // references the `cone` variable
    console.log('scoop added!');
  }, 0.5);
};

const dessert = new IceCream();
dessert.addScoop();
```
The code above will work because instead of using `this` inside the function, it sets the `cone` variable to `this` and then looks up the `cone` variable when the function is called. This works because it's using the value of the `this` outside the function. So if we check the number of scoops in our dessert right now, we'll see the correct value of 1:
```javascript
console.log(dessert.scoops);
```
**Prints**: `1`

Well that's exactly what arrow functions do, so let's replace the function passed to `setTimeout()` with an arrow function:
```javascript
// constructor
function IceCream() {
  this.scoops = 0;
}

// adds scoop to ice cream
IceCream.prototype.addScoop = function() {
  setTimeout(() => { // an arrow function is passed to setTimeout
    this.scoops++;
    console.log('scoop added!');
  }, 0.5);
};

const dessert = new IceCream();
dessert.addScoop();
```
Since arrow functions inherit their `this` value from the surrounding context, this code works!
```javascript
console.log(dessert.scoops);
```
**Prints**: `1`

When `addScoop()` is called, the value of `this` *inside* `addScoop()` refers to `dessert`. Since an arrow function is passed to `setTimeout()`, it's using its surrounding context to determine what `this` refers to inside itself. So since `this` *outside* of the arrow function refers to `dessert`, the value of `this` *inside* the arrow function will also refer to *dessert*.

Now what do you think would happen if we changed the addScoop() method to an arrow function?
```javascript
// constructor
function IceCream() {
    this.scoops = 0;
}

// adds scoop to ice cream
IceCream.prototype.addScoop = () => { // addScoop is now an arrow function
  setTimeout(() => {
    this.scoops++;
    console.log('scoop added!');
  }, 0.5);
};

const dessert = new IceCream();
dessert.addScoop();
```
Yeah, this doesn't work for the same reason - arrow functions inherit their `this` value from their surrounding context. Outside of the `addScoop()` method, the value of `this` is the global object. So if `addScoop()` is an arrow function, the value of `this` *inside* `addScoop()` is the global object. Which then makes the value of `this` in the function passed to `setTimeout()` also set to the global object!
