## 4. Iteration & Iterable Protocols

The **iterable protocol** is used for defining and customizing the iteration behavior of objects. What that really means is you now have the flexibility in ES6 to specify a way for iterating through values in an object. For some objects, they already come built-in with this behavior. For example, strings and arrays are examples of built-in iterables.

In order for an object to be iterable, it must implement the **iterable interface**. If you come from a language like Java or C, then you’re probably familiar with interfaces, but for those of you who aren’t, that basically means that in order for an object to be iterable it must contain a default iterator method. This method will define how the object should be iterated.

The **iterator method**, which is available via the constant `[Symbol.iterator]`, is a zero arguments function that returns an iterator object. An iterator object is an object that conforms to the iterator protocol.

The **iterator protocol** is used to define a standard way that an object produces a sequence of values. What that really means is you now have a process for defining how an object will iterate. This is done through implementing the `.next()` method.

An object becomes an iterator when it implements the `.next()` method. The `.next()` method is a zero arguments function that returns an object with two properties:
  1. `value` : the data representing the next value in the sequence of values within the object
  2. `done` : a boolean representing if the iterator is *done* going through the sequence of values
    1. If done is *true*, then the iterator has reached the end of its sequence of values.
    2. If done is *false*, then the iterator is able to produce another value in its sequence of values.

```javascript
const james = {
    name: 'James',
    height: `5'10"`,
    weight: 185,

    [Symbol.iterator](){
        const chiave = Object.keys(this);
        let index = 0;
        return {
            next: () => {
                const value = this[chiave[index]];
                const key = chiave[index];
                index++;
                const done = index == chiave.length ? true : false;
                return { value, key, done };

            }  
        };
    }
};

const iterator = james[Symbol.iterator]();

console.log(iterator.next());
console.log(iterator.next());
console.log(iterator.next());
```
> **Return**
```javascript
{ value: 'James', key: 'name', done: false }
{ value: '5\'10"', key: 'height', done: false }
{ value: 185, key: 'weight', done: true }
```
